---
layout: post
title:  "#SleepIsForTheWeak"
date:   2015-03-11 17:00:00
draft:  true
---

In the world of tennis, there are four 'major' tournaments each year: the Australian Open, French Open, Wimbledon, and US Open. Winning any  one of them is a remarkable achievement, and winning all four (the 'Grand Slam') is one of the most difficult things to do in the sport. The majors are the most prominent of tennis tournaments, so viewers are able to consume incredible amounts of information about these events - from player behavior in locker rooms to their fears and doubts on the court. With high definition cameras all over the courts, there is little a player can do that spectators do not see.

As an enthusiastic tennis fan, I watch these tournaments obsessively each year. Between watching the matches, reading transcripts of daily interviews, and listening to commentator analysis, I have time for little else over the two weeks that each tournament spans. With each tournament, I can sense the tremendous joy and excitement of the tennis world. Yet the anticipation that I feel before each major is different - each tournament has a personality of its own, and I find myself waiting for different things at each one.

The most famous of all tennis tournaments is [Wimbledon](http://www.wimbledon.com/index.html) - still being played on its historic grass and maintaining the traditions of old. The grass causes a different style of tennis: the ball slips more, and stays lower - which leads to fewer rallies and more of an emphasis on the serve. While the quality of tennis is less to my liking (I don't like seeing people win matches with just a serve), the British crowd is respectful and knowledgeable about tennis. My only complaint is that the tournament tries too hard to be classy. Now, when I say this, people generally think I'm referring to the rule that all players must wear white. This rule has been in place for over a century (although it's [getting stricter](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/05/sports/tennis/at-wimbledon-white-is-in-style-whether-players-like-it-or-not.html)), but many players say that it adds to the tradition and inspiration of the place. What bothers _me_ about Wimbledon is the unforced error counts at the tournament. Unforced errors are mistakes that a player makes that are not due to some quality shot the opponent just hit (an example is a double fault). Now, unforced errors are recorded by a scorekeeper and _are_ subjective - but Wimbledon goes out of its way to keep unforced error counts artificially low, so that when people look at match statistics they will believe the matches were of a higher quality than they actually were. Am I being picky about this? Yes. But this manipulation attempts to create a false sense of grandeur about the tournament, and I don't like it.

In stark contrast to the white outfits and green grass of Wimbledon is the red terre battue of the [French Open](http://www.rolandgarros.com/en_FR/). This lovely mixture of clay and dirt covers the courts, and absolutely cakes players' socks and shoes over the course of the match. The clay also slows the ball down, meaning you see insane rallies. Clay court tennis is probably my favorite to watch. The French Open is also the most successful major of my favorite player, Rafael Nadal, who has won nine of the last ten tournaments (2004-08, 2010-14). Yet while there is much that I like about the French Open, the one thing I cannot stand is the crowd. Now, I am completely happy with a crowd getting behind a single player, because it is for the fans that these tournaments are held. What I do have a problem with is fans jeering or booing an opponent simply because they do not like him or her. And this is exactly what happened in 2009, when an injured Rafael Nadal stepped on court for what would be his first (and to date only) loss at the French. The crowd simply wanted to see him lose, because they felt he had won too much, and so they booed him while he lost for the first time. Class? I think not.

Also different is the [US Open](http://www.usopen.org/), held in New York City each September. This is the only major I've been to in person (so far, at least) and the experience was fantastic. For an $80 one day pass, I got to see many current and past top 10 players, including the Williams sisters! With NYC comes an electric, under the lights vibe that can't be matched anywhere in the world. Combined with quick hard courts (basically cement), the tennis is spectacular. All in all, a tournament I would absolutely love to go back to. I'm happy that I have good feelings about the major that is closest to home.

What surprises me, however, is how much I like the [Australian Open](http://www.ausopen.com/). With a laid back, cheerful fan base and a slower hard court that leads to some insane rallies, the atmosphere is just perfect for me. Even though Rafa has suffered heartbreak after heartbreak at this event, I love the way the crowd continues to cheer him (and all players) on. The event is well-known for being the most organized from the players' point of view, meaning they all enjoy competing there. An organization that caters to the players, and has great fans? Now that's what I'm talking about. But on top of this, the Aussie Open has one thing for me that is pure coincidence, and which makes me even crazier about it: the time difference. With matches played from 11:00 am to around 1 am Australia time, I'm watching from 7 pm to 9 am on the east coast (or 4 pm to 6 am out here in Cali). And the most crazy part? I watch all of it. One of my happiest memories is in 2011, when two of my college roommates and I went all out Aussie Open for a week of winter break. We would wake up around 6 pm, order some pizza for breakfast, and start watching. Lunch would consist of a 'late' night run to the WaWa, and dinner was at 6 am at Panera as the sun was rising and they were opening their doors. The matches would end around 8 or 9 in the morning, when we would fall asleep. It is one of those weeks that I will never forget. Oh, and the mantra for us crazy people who do this?

> # [#SleepIsForTheWeak](https://twitter.com/paparesh/status/557958601096974336)

Indeed it is, and I will continue with these crazy antics for many years to come.